here we go oh and we're live okay who's
that there for committees not easy
yeah we didn't say very much interesting
before starting no we were starting and
then you just said Shopify set hold that
table this this concept of things
getting better and we were talking about
war war being tikkas is a world war ii
helmet that shane against the machine is
the gentleman's name he's made me
another sculpture and he started making
sculptures out of these World War two
helmets with a lamp underneath it and an
actual real world war two bayonet as
well and you were saying was a terrible
idea it's going away
you think yeah real really fast and you
you mentioned Pinker
yeah and that's you know everything I
will say is redundant to Pinker I mean
that better angels of our nature is one
of I think the most subversive books of
our time you know people are there's
such a it's a fetish to suffer it's a
fetish to say how bad things are people
are getting really off on it and when
you start saying you know after you say
one death by violence is too many and we
got to clean up the environment and did
it a today say all that stuff and it's
all true but you can also take a breath
and say things are getting better yeah I
think we need to recognize that and the
the problem is there is there is
violence there is horrible things there
are horrible things in the world they
still exist and now they're magnified
because of the fact that we have this
ability to look at it on your phone
anytime you want it's the same thing I
think calories and information are
identical you know for millions billion
years the biggest problem every living
thing had was too few calories and then
for what maybe 75 years a very small
percentage of the animals in the world
had this problem of too many calories
and there's nothing that prepares
anybody for that we now have more
information in one issue of the New York
Times then a 17th century peasant would
have had in their entire life so we have
this glut of information
that we're dealing with about as well as
we dealt with calories I talked about
this quite often but the way I describe
it is diet and that most people have a
poor diet and then most people's diet is
not nutritious right and if you have a
poor diet that's not nutritious your
body becomes unhealthy well if you have
a poor mental diet yeah and I've
discussed how many people would do we
talked about this with like three or
four people we've been talking about
this like taking in information you
should almost think of it as a mental
diet because if you take in bad
information all the time the negative
information and I will speak for myself
but I don't think I'm in any way alone I
often forget where I read stuff oh
you're really careful to not read too
much garbage yeah or it just pops up in
my head is all that's real right so I
try to go with new sources that are I
think are pretty reliable even if I
disagree with them like I try to read
The Times because I know there's a level
to how much they're gonna lie we know we
know where the parameters are they're
lying there you know yeah we know where
they do the spin and if you just just
pop around the web at random you can't
tell what what kind of information
you're getting but I also want to add to
this you know it's it's exactly the way
I feel about drugs you know as much as I
want to say this is not right for me
information has to be out there and all
information absolutely no gatekeepers
you don't know I completely agree and I
think that we're coming very close to a
time where technology allows us to
understand what's true and what's not
true we're not there yet but I think
we're really close to being able to have
some sort of an ability to read minds to
to decipher information like really
clearly but the problem with reading
minds if we could do it and the to
ascertain truth is truth is very
different from what someone believes yes
you know if you had a perfect lie
detector it would not help you with
criminality at all because you know
people that think they're innocent may
very well think they're innocent
even if they are not oh sure sure yeah
that's a really good point and you know
another really good point is memory is
very fallible oh yeah I see I you know I
get a lot of I got a lot of shit for
this and I talked about a little bit on
on my podcast but you know I was in the
room to trump a lot you know I did
- tortoise yeah I did two tours of duty
tell us tell me about that what is that
like I was supposed to do that show and
I passed on it yeah I was like I don't
want to live in New York for three
months or whatever it was yeah just seem
like it's wise either way it was a it
was a prime-time television show so it's
sold tickets and that is our job right
and that's what we do and I went on with
one idea in my head you know Annie Duke
you know the poker player she'd been on
the year before and I said why am I
going on I mean I'm normal sell tickets
and that's that's just a done deal but
why am I going on what's my wheel goal
and she said go on and show that atheist
can be kind that'll be your only goal
for the whole show because they're gonna
jump on you for being atheist they'll
jump all over you for that and just show
that you're the one that gets mad the
least so the one that you're the nicest
guy on there and you're the hardcore
atheist and I went okay that's a good
goal but then you sit in the room I
don't know how will you know the
president United States and I don't want
to know them at all yeah but you spend
about two or three hours every other day
sitting in a room across the table like
this with a table you can't put your
hands on I can't because it might Mar it
in all oh that's hilarious
but a hand promote they literally tell
you don't put your hands on the end of
the table and you have to sit up
straight and the camera if you're like
the team captain which by the way they
hate it if you call them team captain
I'd like to have it you know some sort
of business jargon and you're in you're
in a set and that's the thing that
everybody else on the show would say
we're going into the boardroom now when
I'd say no we're going on to the
boardroom set so it wasn't a real
boardroom no of course not not a sound
stage it was you know it was in the
Trump Towers but they've taken over
flooring MBC guts it and puts up this
shit and then it's your camera that your
hero camera that's over your shoulder
that's shooting Trump so you can't lean
into the camera right and they want a
little piece yes you can't lean out of
the camera so then you've gotten about
two hours where you sit up straight and
you can't move side to side and you
can't put your hands the
table and you listen to someone speak
for two hours that they're gonna try to
edit out to get three minutes where he
sounds okay okay
what does he have to say for two hours
he will talk he would talk I mean things
obviously have changed but he would talk
about I was reading this blog on the
internet that said I didn't sell my
property for enough and I bought it for
three million dollars and I sold it for
four million isn't that a profit
isn't that a profit what do you think
isn't that a profit yeah that would be a
million dollars profit well they said I
sold it for two less they too little
okay who was this there's somebody on
the Internet
okay so you know he'd be arguing in
front of us with perhaps a 18 year old
guy on the internet who thought that
Donald Trump should have made more from
a real estate deal and this is something
he really concentrates on he seems to
still to this day yeah obsessed with
what anybody says about him anytime
that's so hot and I thought and I want
to say this very clearly um I thought he
was wonderful at his job you know if you
had someone who was actually a business
person on that show it would be the
worst show in the world because Bill
Gates would make proper decisions and
there'd be no surprises you want someone
capricious and crazy with no filter
that's what you want right and that's
what we got so he makes arbitrary
decisions that you try you know the
human brain tries desperately to make
those make sense and that ends up being
some kind of entertainment and so I
actually actually a Donald Trump jr.
said to me you know of all the people
we've had on the show you seem like the
only person who's ever liked my father
he said you actually seem to like them
and I said you know I have a fascination
and a respect and a affection for people
who are able to get out of their filters
and I said some people do that with pure
genius
like Bob Dylan some people do it with
bravery like Lenny Bruce some people do
it with drugs
you know Neil Young perhaps Jimi Hendrix
perhaps and most people do it with a
mixture of stuff but I said the
loneliest monk said the genius is the
one who is most like himself and I said
with some sort of mental problems
coupled with greed and a lack of
compassion
your father has somehow found a way to
throw off the filters and I will listen
to Tiny Tim talk on tape for hours
because I like that little bit of
Asperger's and all that other stuff I'm
I'm not assuming I'm not qualified to
act but I'm saying this oddity yes oh
sure I can hear him talk forever I can
listen to Lenny Bruce you know how well
there has those hundreds hours of him
just ranting under his tape I think I
don't like people on drugs that much but
boy I do and I listen to Lenny Bruce
talk forever and Donald Trump had the
dark side of that you know it's almost
like when I was hitchhiking around the
country and you know homeless and shit
and you'd end up at a biker place and
you know some Clubhouse and some guys
just holding court and ranting I've
always been interested in the people who
were out on the margins you know and
what what Donald Jr took as affection
like I guess was a bit of affection but
it's also that if you have thrown off
some filters I'll listen to you talk and
so that was that it was very very
strange and then I really did spend a
lot of time kind of sticking up for
Donald Trump saying yeah there's
interesting stuff there and yeah he's
crazy and he's venal and he's empty you
know really weird stuff that you've
never seen before you have never seen
someone who has never laughed sincerely
and never made a joke
never laugh sincerely no evil he will
laugh in a bully way you look got a fat
joe yeah he'll do that but he won't
laugh at himself Oh
No and also but never a even a joke even
a sensor only things on Twitter did you
see the thing he did on Twitter the
other day we put a picture of Trump
Tower in Greenland and he said I promise
not to do this yeah yeah I mean I left
mmm that was funny hmm a giant Trump
Tower in the middle of Greenland I never
saw it I mean I saw that but we never
saw him in person I never saw the person
I also never saw him showing the
enjoyment or understanding of music and
those two things are two things that I
connect with people very much on I do
too but one of my best friends Doug
Stanhope does not like music oh yeah
yeah I know I got fucking hate music and
tell his father really how his father
did like music I mean I don't know and
aggressively didn't like music yeah I
don't know what that is but I do know
that I don't I don't believe that we see
things the same way like I don't think
we taste things the same way which is
why some people enjoy certain kinds of
foods and some people hate those exact
same foods some people the music sounds
different you know in terms of like what
what their emotional and psychological
makeup is and what it does to them some
people don't want to have none of it and
that's Stano when I lost all that way
you lost over 100 pounds congratulations
and I read a lot and also more
importantly for years and kept it off
but when I was reading about taste I
read this book and I know it's awful
that I can't bring up the name but um a
woman wrote this wonderful book about
preferences and food and she was trying
to set up a dichotomy let's talk to
those people who think there's a natural
taste and desire in food and those that
think it's all environment and what you
in memory and so on and you just can't
find scientists on the other side all of
our food preferences are habit and
there's nothing else habit
it's just happen is that proven seems to
be lots of studies with young children
lots of studies with people who they
control their body but how do you make
how does it make sense when you have two
kids that have radically different
tastes that grew up in the same
household and they have essentially very
very similar food experiences yeah well
I
I don't know how they tease out that but
that one water one daughter who loves
spicy food and she's young she's nine
yeah and I love spicy food yeah and I
mean this fucking kid can eat jalapenos
he eats habanero sauce she'll like I'll
say this one might be a little too hard
for you she's like let me try it
and she'll like dip her finger and she's
like put it on she'll eat chicken with
habanero sauce and she's a little savage
my other one doesn't want to have
nothing to do with you she did she
thinks everything's too hot like a
little bit of pepper she's like oh it's
too hot but you know I I found when my
when I changed my diets erratically that
my comfort foods changed and my habits
changed and what I like Gino a lot of
that is because of gut bacteria oh I
know that
oh yeah microbiome fascinating the
really fascinating stuff and feeding
back to your brain you know that was the
thing that was so so strange causing
your emotions yes very much so
but when I I became plant-based vegan
for health reasons and I wrote in my
book I wrote a lot of stuff about I am
an unethical vegan I'm not doing this or
any sort of animal any sort of animal
lack of animal cruelty nothing
strictly health that's why I'm doing the
plants and a story and this has happened
to a lot of friends of mine who change
that after whatever it takes and people
are guessing like three months four
months of of no animal products those
little critters eating shit in your in
your guts died that like the meat stuff
and they're not giving that feedback
loop and I just found a real emotional
change when all of a sudden I went I
don't want to be part of that of the
suffering yeah it was really strange how
that changed and it really felt to me I
so want to I you know hardcore atheist
as you know and I don't believe in a
mind-body separation at all and yet I
seem to believe that when I was 350
pounds that none of that affected my
emotion and then I lost all
wait and found there were so many
changes in me that seemed to be
intellectual and emotional and actually
I had a lot of evidence were physical
well there's a lot me up on the
mind-body separation should fuck you up
because a lot of people make these
assumptions that you know you are not
your body and a lot of very intelligent
people there is shoe working out and
they don't want to exercise and they
find it like it's a vanity thing it
seems egotistical they don't they don't
like it and so they put it in this
category of kind of knuckle had dumb
things to do but your body in your mind
are all in the same house all the same
thing yeah if your house is filled with
shit it doesn't help anything so amazing
how I mean I completely believe that
yeah and yeah that wasn't lifted that I
was like thinking that I was living this
you know 2,000 year old idea of little
homunculus who's kind of living inside
me who's this pure pen and then the body
is just the vehicle it's driving around
it's just not true help you with that I
think knowing you as long as I've known
you you're an intense thinker and you
your mind is something you I mean you
cherish your thoughts and you you and
embrace them and you're a very
intelligent guy and I think you just
probably rejected the idea that there
was anything outside of the mind that
had any influence on you we also talked
about this I was also you know I was the
biggest guy to ever go through my school
so my small high school in western
Massachusetts you know so I was I was
six seven and they wanted me as center
of the basketball team they want all
this stuff and those kinds of people in
that kind of culture you know I wanted
to listen to music I wanted to read and
I set up this you guys who are physical
I don't like you I'm on a different team
yeah you know and my dislike of
competitions and teams became a team
thing yes you know yeah yeah that's the
thing you always get stuck in yeah they
did the dislike of teams becomes your
team and I'm trying so hard now to think
I have two choices
one or seven billion and there's no
teams between that I can either be
myself or I can be one of all humanity
or I won't even say seven billion let's
say a hundred and eight billion the
number of people who have lived in
history you know those are the people I
can be it's why I'm trying to not and
this is impossible to do by the way I'm
talking about how I'm drug I'm
explaining to you how I'm driving myself
crazy right I'm not gonna get real
information I'm trying to not think ever
of us in them mmm but I'm trying to say
those of us who voted for Trump those of
us who believe this so it's always us
because man I am so fucking sick of
teams yeah and even look back and go you
know I loved The Velvet Underground
I hated the fucking Eagles and that was
a fucking team and that was manipulated
and forced upon you no I mean I wanted
to be the kind of guy that went from you
know Zappa The Velvet Underground to to
Bob Dylan that was all okay and the
Eagles and the Doobie Brothers they were
not what I listen to
I'm just trying to let that go yeah you
wanted to be one of the cool kids yeah
exactly yeah and whenever you want that
you've got to say well you're one of the
cool kids
that's the hundred eight billion who've
lived on this planet yeah that's a great
way to look at things and I think I wish
people taught that in school the dangers
of being involved in teams because we
get involved in teams in terms of like
you know you're playing basketball or
whatever but but teams in terms of like
the what what I believe versus what you
believe and I think we're experiencing
that politically right now with the most
polarizing time and in in my lifetime
that have ever ever worldwide yes
worldwide I mean it is not it is not an
American thing right and magista sane
and I also know that's why I said you
know I try to go with the Velvet
Underground and the Eagles because
that's where I can really see where I'm
wrong yeah you know that I'm wrong how
do you deny victim of love that's a
okay let's chill out in the mix the
Eagles change you know people have to
recognize I was in the middle of the
China Sea with Joe Walsh through it
through a series of odd coincidences
when I had well justjust last year we
got this gig Paul Allen who's one of the
sure please great guy right and here
great things but he books us to be on a
cruise to do a show for his friends he
got like 200 friends and he's bought
this fucking cruise ship he's rented
this fucking cruise ship thrown off all
the chefs and everything bring on his
own people and they're gonna go from
from Co Bay to Shanghai and he wants the
entertainment to be Jay Leno Penn &
Teller and Ringo Starr whoa okay that's
what it's gonna be on the China Sea on a
cruise boat for like 200 people and he
books it and as I said to my friend Biff
the magic dragon I said do you know how
much it costs to shut down Penn & Teller
in Vegas and fly us all to fucking Japan
to be on a cruise ship to do a fucking
Penn & Teller show and then come back
give any idea how much that cost and pip
said no and I said me neither but it
must be a lot you gotta talk to my
managers of something cuz that must be a
shit ton of money so he books this whole
thing and then Paul Allen dies right
dies so you know Glenn who you met out
there the long-suffering Glenn who our
manager he calls up after a few days and
says really sorry for your loss and
we'll trade in the tickets and get you
the money back and we can probably
rebook those those week so it's not
going to cost you anything and so sorry
but no no no we're still doing it and
then goes we used were the person that
booked us is dead we still doing this
gig and they go yeah yeah we went okay
and I said to Glenn you know now that we
can work for dead people our careers
gonna take off you know cuz that opens
up the market right right
so turns out that his friends you know
Paul Allen's friend for people like Joe
Walsh and Billy Gibbons and all these
food scientists and all these great
people so there I am in the middle of
the China Sea with with the Joe Walsh on
stage just at 3:00 in the morning
playing piano for like 15 people and you
know singing desperado and those kinds
of things and talking to Joe Walsh and
stuff and going now why exactly was I on
a different team from Josh yeah why
exactly was I on the Lou Reed team sort
of the Joe Walsh team they knows the big
lebowski influence but it's just um it's
just trying to be more and more
inclusive is just a really difficult
thing to do it is and the jobs and the
music guys all that stuff just everybody
be everybody you can become a prisoner
of those thoughts and those those things
you espouse like when you start saying
fuck the Eagles like you're stuck you're
stuck we fuck the Eagles and then when
you start to realize that you know when
the clash was hitting in the US there
were people sitting around a boardroom
going how do we get 20 year old assholes
to buy this shit right there was all
being done and laid out and that's fine
that's their job and that's great and
God bless them but I gotta be aware that
they're doing that yeah I know when you
think about someone sounds Sex Pistols
merchandise was first in the Hard Rock
you know and there's a big sign the only
notes that really count are the ones
that come in wads and that's over the
door of a casino that you're walking in
and then there's a Sid Vicious slot
machine and you go okay okay so this is
you know satires dead we can no longer
do satire that's over it's hard to do
satire it's done really hard because
there's so many people that are serious
that are more ridiculous than satire
there's a guy who I don't know his real
name but his his Twitter name is Tatiana
McGrath and he plays like the most woke
person in all of Twitter and I retweet
his stuff or her stuff the the
sudonym all the time and people get
furious they're like oh my god is this
fucking person serious like this is
bullshit and I'm like it's a parody and
they're like oh okay I get it I'm like
it's that close it's that close to being
a real person but not close we've
already crossed over oh yeah absolutely
there's no way to tell no there's no way
to tell with woke people with the with
the woke young there's no way to tell
with it with anyone far right as well
yeah yeah
there's no way to tell with any of us
these are so but I never ever ever
lights a tire I never ever like parody
even I was reading The Onion National
Lampoon how about that is that a turn
around fast enough for you the onion is
too good when the onion did the headline
when Steve Jobs died which said a nation
mourns the loss of the last person to do
what the fuck he was doing I saw that
poster you have up you have up here in
Europe the Lenny Bruce without tears oh
yeah yeah and you know the idea of
walking I mean and I looked I was I was
whatever I was 10 or 11 when Lenny Bruce
died and but you know I didn't ever hear
him until after he was dead and you're
younger than me so it's even more so for
you but I I did not go to college but I
I would hitchhike up to the college it
was nearby when I was in high school
which was UMass and all that and yeah
and because I'm from a little dead
factory town north of there and I
remember seeing Lenny Bruce without
tears they showed that as a film
oh wow on the college campus Wow I think
I'm remembering this right like we know
our memories are wrong but I saw the
film very early and it was a completely
life-changing for me you know the idea
that stand-up comedy was going to go
from but what to me was The Smothers
Brothers to to somebody actually
talking from their heart in a way that
made people laugh but who cared and of
course then Andy Kaufman turns that
entirely inside out but the idea that
that form was created you know created
here in the US when you went from being
a you know parka carcass you know Albert
Brooks his father doing the Greek
dialect and even throw in Amos and Andy
and all of those people that did joke
joke jokes and character stuff and then
all of a sudden a guy coming out as
himself and talking about his real life
was just mind-blowing to me and so the
idea that instead of doing parody being
able to get your laughs stating what you
believe and maybe that means people are
laughing at you and maybe that's okay
it's it's definitely okay but I don't
think there's anything wrong with any
way to do it I think there's nothing
wrong with Abbott and Costello you know
I mean it's yeah I was having a talk
with Gilbert you know give a gosh rate
and we were talking he said you know in
in the in Laurel and Hardy Stan Laurel
was the brains and them Three Stooges
Moe was the brains and in the Marx
Brothers Groucho was the brains and Abin
Costello had no brains you know that
total you want to talk about the Stooges
being Anarchy yeah the the Abbott
Costello are just completely off the map
yeah just really for the time though was
groundbreaking we it's hard for us to
wrap our head around as was Cheech and
Chong
you know Cheech and Chong for the time
was groundbreaking I know it has to do
with drugs and vision for me me I I was
on a different team if then but I've
gone back and that stuff is good and of
course but I'm also a liar because I was
crazy for fire sign theater and
memorizing everything and Phil Proctor
is still a good friend of mine and that
was very much drug base I think that
comedy is like music in that there's a
whole bunch of different ways to do it
you know and if you were a big fan of
Bruce Springsteen and you went to see
Bruce Springsteen but Run DMC showed up
instead you'd be
furious like what the fuck is this but
obviously people love Run DMC it's a
different way to do a thing it's a
different way to express just and and
and and a way to learn yeah no way to
learn when you get when you get pushed
out of there but it's it's just that
that whole idea that you've got to this
I mean my life is so heavily affected by
drugs even though I had this whole you
know I'm not gonna do any drugs why did
you have the decision you know I don't
know I don't know that's always and I've
talked about this on my podcast forever
you know I tidy now was it how old you
know I'm 64 years old and you have no
experience with drugs other than
medication surgery
sorry I'm in B yes and I have I've had
deep enough injuries that I have
experienced keep getting surgery because
you love drug well you know Trey Parker
said that my big flaw was never having
been high so he fix that
sorry I don't so i he did fix that I
would in for dental surgery serious
dental surgery and they fucked up and
the the dentist told the nurse what he
had given me in terms of painkillers and
she took that as what she was supposed
to give me so instantly doubled the dose
and I was so fucking high and out of my
mind
you know can die that way yeah and I
told my wife through my haze of not
knowing who I was
call Trey Parker drag came to Vegas and
said I want to sit with Ben hi he flew
in how long did it take you to get to
you we was planning on being there like
it came like a day early oh so he got he
got there like I was still high and Trey
said I didn't remember anything and Trey
said the next day I was right you should
be high well there's different kinds of
high it's just like there's different
kinds of music and you know I was very I
was very I was very close to Lou Reed
mm-hmm and I was a very good friend of
mine and Lou said
speaking on behalf of the people of
Earth which I often do we don't want to
see how I motherfucker don't do it so Lu
says no traces yes what does Joe say
well Joe this is interesting because I
wanted to talk to you about this because
we had a conversation a long time ago
about this and you said that I don't
remember this very clearly I may
paraphrase us but you said I think we've
learned all there is to know and I don't
need to do it yes I said that and I was
wrong yeah yeah just well I think you
should experience psychedelics
you don't think psychedelics are a
totally different thing they don't take
you we know Sam Harris sure and Sam
Harris is the one who got me meditating
Oh which took him years of arguing with
me and now it's been three or four years
that I have not missed a day not mr. day
you you have a problem
here's morning problems you're very
intelligent you're also very large and
you're very articulate and people like
to hear you talk so you just can talk
and you can take over you could over run
things and you can make an argument that
people just go alright okay and they
step back and that's good if you're
trying to win an argument but sometimes
it's bad to take in ideas and I remember
when I have that conference exactly
right thank you when I had that
conversation with you I remember saying
I'm gonna revisit this someday and one
day I want to get pen fucked up on
mushrooms that's what I remember
thinking like it might be a good thing
for well the best thing for you would be
something that doesn't take very long
just so you can explai is the best one
because it takes like 15 minutes and
it's over and then your body brings it
back to baseline almost immediately so
you literally travel to another
dimension and then you're back and you
don't have to worry about any overdosing
because it's an endogenous chemical your
body knows exactly what to do it so one
of the quickest chemicals that your body
could break down and bring back to
baseline in in my defense from the very
beginning of my not doing drugs which is
an odd odd kind of kind of baseline
there I always left the door open for
for psychedelics in the heart when I
what I disliked the most was wine with
dinner
really
it's like the most social kind of
lubrication wine with dinners amazing
doing this in past tense you know that's
that's where I that's right that's where
I always was and I always left open the
possibility of some of the more intense
stuff wine with dinner is a delicious
drug it's one of the rare delicious
drugs like I like whiskey but let's be
honest it tastes like shit it's weird
you're drinking the stuff that's whoa
like it's got kind of a good flavor but
it's like it's harsh you can't drink it
like it can't fuck with kool-aid
kool-aid tastes way better than cool
it's cheap
he doesn't mix it up it tastes delicious
it's way better tasting but you know
wine has a delicious taste that you can
enjoy here's my problem
one of my many problems will detail more
than one okay but I have no skill at
moderation I'm 64 years old and I've
never been able to do anything with
moderation mmm
so I think if you told me we're gonna do
acid for the rest of our lives every
single day you could make that argument
the idea for me that's hard like I said
but I said I was meditated I haven't
missed a day
maybe you should microdose yeah baby
yeah would you give you a little right
now just a little spray you do microdose
series like a do it now and I want to
think about it before it all though
would be pretty boss so um how often do
you always gonna answer that question I
have a zillion answers to why I've never
done drugs and none of them are of
course true because we don't have access
to right that's stuff that we really do
but my parents and my whole family in
back generations teetotalers so there
was never alcohol in the house never I
never saw my parents take a drink when
it was on TV it was a totally different
thing it just didn't happen I didn't end
it
they never preached about it they never
said don't drink they never said don't
do drugs it just never was in the house
and that statistically has a huge effect
on people
and then the first people I fell madly
in love with you know Lenny Bruce Jimmy
Hendrix had been in my mind killed by
drugs mhm and I kind of said who people
would that have this kind of personality
when they get into drugs they sometimes
have trouble and I think that maybe
being 19 years old and trying to get
into show business that maybe being the
sober one allowed the Dumber guy to do a
little better you know is everybody else
kind of get out of my way has ever
fucked up some of the time I could get
other stuff done and then that starts
reinforcing they may no longer be valid
well there are draw I mean I've never
done coke and one of the reasons why I
never did coke enough talk about this
many times my friend growing up his
cousin used to sell it and I watched his
life fall apart they were just doing
coke all the time and lost a lot of
weight and looks like a vampire it was
very strange it's hung out in their
attic apartment it's really weird mmm I
remember thinking fuck coke it's like
like a guy I know got a bit by a monster
you know and and was infected with
something you have the people the people
that I've been on coke not pleasant not
good it's not I don't and I think that's
also you know one of the accusations
against Trump that he's on some sort of
speed you know which is why he's so
inexhaustible you know and also why he
has this inability to be affected by
criticism in terms of like he doesn't
he's no flexion no shame right no shame
no self-reflection and that's something
that is a symptom of people that are on
speed you know and this is the adderall
generation that we're living in goddamn
there's so many fucking people that are
on adderall yeah I mean it's so it's so
goddamn common you know I was having
this conversation
the other day and someone was telling me
about this guy they know who's really
brilliant but he won't stop till he's
got ADHD and you know he just can't stop
and he won't stop talking and this night
I'm waiting I'm just waiting while this
person's talking to me I'll go he's on
adderall and they go yeah he is it's a
medication I go
it's fucking speed that guys on speed ok
and you can call it a medication because
you can buy it at the pharmacy but that
fucking guy's speed all day long every
day and there is a giant number of
people in this country that are
medicated and that are on speed all the
time that's a great Andy Warhol quote
which was in the 60s we thought we were
getting to know people but we were
giving you know drugs hmm you know
there's there is definitely there is
definitely a personality type that we
think is an individual that does seem to
have a tie anyway it's fuckin adderall
mindset there's a speed mindset and it's
a go go go get everything done more
bigger faster accumulate shit I'm the
fucking man I'm the fucking man like
that that's a speed mindset it's a
dangerous mindset it's a real weird one
and it's not one that laughs it itself
it's not one that self-deprecating me me
me I'm the shit and that's what you get
out of Trump this is I mean there's a
guy who's in a journalist who wrote a
story about how he knows the very Dwayne
Reed pharmacy in Manhattan where Trump
was getting diet pills way back in the
day where he's supposed to take it for
like six weeks he took it for years and
this guy is saying like this is what
you're dealing with like many people
have call him the adderall president
like this is entire it absolutely could
be that he's on something that all that
we're talking about this whole time is
just speed yeah yeah I mean and it gives
them the energy to talk look remember
when he was running for president I'm
like how the fuck is this guy not tired
I get tired if I tour and do stand-up
when I do stand-up it's an hour 20
minutes of my own routine that I've
wrote myself I'm hanging out with
friends I do two shows a night on my
whoo this motherfuckers touring flying
around in jets all over the country just
in exhausted just no fucking script just
goes onstage in front of everybody just
rant and rave about China and the
economy and build wall and well all
right we're gonna go to Ohio and then
off to the jet eatin Kentucky Fried
Chicken and fucking flies in Ohio and he
does it again I mean who the fuck at 70
has that kind of energy people on speed
I don't know if it's true I might be
wrong yeah I might be wrong but it seems
like it it seems like all the pieces
aren't
and there was a psychologist doing an
analysis of all the various
psychological traits that people who are
on and feta means have and they compared
it to Trump and like all of them
megalomania all of the various
psychological characteristics inability
to accept criticism you know this
thinking that everyone's against them
this the this this delusions of grandeur
all these different things there was a
guy on on that was was on apprentice who
talked about him him doing these these
kind of drugs there was a news story it
was like a it was like an intern that we
weren't going to just kind of fade it
away after that but I it's a it's it's a
nutty it's a nutty thing Tom Arnold
claims Donald Trump snorted adderall on
the apprentice said okay well I know Tom
he's crazy I love you Tom but I don't
know yeah maybe he did but me Tom Arnold
would say that he snorted trumped it
snorted coke just to piss Trump off yeah
he would say that just cuz I'm fuckin
with him but getting under his skin
maybe did snort at all I don't know I
don't know I it doesn't seem like that
it's the kind of thing he would snort it
seemed like he would pretend it was
medicinal yeah take a pill
yeah I mean it's kind of medicinal
here's the thing it will allow you to
get more things done you know we had a
guy in here wrote a book on Hunter
Thompson and one of the things he was
talking about was that he needs adderall
- right and I was going into it with him
because one of the things that dirty
little secret about journalism is a
tremendous amount of journalists are on
adderall a tremendous amount like an
enormous amount like one of my friends
who's a pretty do we know how much
adderall is going into the USA that's a
good question how many adderall
prescriptions were made in 2018 let's
just fuck that out but my friend who's a
legit journalist for legit publication
said you would be stunned and he goes he
goes it's an enormous percentage already
they just started banging it out I mean
like they did with them with the offense
and all the vets to children they just
bang out adderall under and what's the
other one
Prozac no the other one they do for I
guess it
for attention deficit disorder is
another one other than adderall is it
all just a dural maybe prozac adderall
I know prozac prozac was they put my
neighbor's kid on Prozac fucking her
seems low sixteen million adults or
prescriptions were filled sixteen
million adults had prescriptions filled
yeah that's a little thousand abuse it
which seems low also so sixteen million
yeah what is that like three percent
yeah yeah that seems low less than four
four percent something like that that
was last year did 2012 is the last oh
that's what I'm breaking fine but that's
a million years ago showing up maybe
that was true for 2012 I think it
probably was true for 2012 I think we
live in a whole new world now and I
don't think it's anywhere near 4% or 5%
whatever the fuck the real number is I
bet it's about 10 I bet it's 10 percent
of people in this country are on
adderall if I had a guess I bet it's
around 30 million
I bet it's around you know yeah I'm not
yeah I wouldn't be shocked I know a
bunch of people are on it a bunch and
you know some people tell me they have
to take it that's what my favorite one
is I have to take it I don't take it
what happens you die you disappear what
happens if you don't take it it's fuckin
speed man you know like and a lot of the
people that take it they're not healthy
otherwise like they're not exercising
they're not drinking a lot of water
they're not meditating they're not
eating healthy foods like what do you
why do you need that like what happens
if you get rid of that other stuff like
cut out the shitty food cut out all the
sugar start drinking water no booze
let's get you exercising three times the
legal Emmy see if you really need that
adderall shit you know how many vitamins
do you take do you take vitamins do you
eat healthy
are you drinking fruit juice and
vegetable juice are you what kind of
nutrients are you taking into your
system man and you're wondering why you
don't have any fucking energy so you
just pour in jet fuel and the attack
lighten the whole fucking thing on fire
but and the other hand is like things
get done when you take speed you know
what we were talking about Hitler the
other day that uhm why wouldn't you be
why wouldn't we be we were talking about
who was who are we talking about was it
with Fahim I don't remember but we were
talking about how Hitler there was a
time where hit
had come back from something and he's
supposed to meet Mussolini and he was
like physically exhausted so his doctor
injected him with a combination of
steroids and liquid cocaine and he just
just fucking filled with energies like
give me another one
and the guy's like no I give you fucking
and he gave him another one and then he
went to mussolini and ranted at
Mussolini just fucking talked at him for
five hours and Mussolini just never got
a word in edgewise and apparently
Mussolini's plan was to talk to Hitler
hey man Italy wants to get the fuck out
of this and just fucking going crazy for
five hours sweating like a pig because
he was on fucking coke he was on coke
and steroids they just pumped him up
with it maybe it's best to stay away
from some drugs yes yes
but I mean it's it's amazing how much
productivity gets done because of
caffeine right the wood is caffeine
caffeine is a very mild stimulant in
terms of you know and compared to a
drawl or things along those lines but it
is a fucking drug and it's a drug
there's a goddamn drug store on every
corner everyone's buying it it's in
every gas station everyone's fuelling up
yeah fuel up you know yeah I mean you
know I I don't I brought no drink
decaffeinated coffee which means I drink
5% of what right you know I do I can
drink eight cups of coffee and it makes
you just like the clothes I don't like
the taste but I like the social stuff I
like having a hot bitter thing in front
of me let's just have tea I have to you
too yeah i nervous Lee I nervously drink
yeah but like you know like some people
smoke I like Tapsell sir I like to have
decaf coffee or decaf tea or somewhere
yeah I like saucer - it makes me feel
like I'm doing something rather than
drinking water you know I like sparkling
water its water would entertain
I like sparkling water with a little
lime oh I got a drink here or you know
what you take decaffeinated espresso and
then you pour carbonated water on top of
that and then you've got bitter bubbly
you're drinking a potion you want that
you want a potion mmm a potion makes you
feel like an adult
yeah bro this is your kool-aid this is
an adult way
and when you're when you're a
non-drinker of alcohol you have to work
very hard to look like you're drinking
like an adult yeah so you've never
fucked with alcohol at all no wine no
nothing nothing
I've been tried okay I know I'm talking
to someone who pays attention so you can
say that there is alcohol in vanilla
there's alcohol and things like that so
you can't say none but none that I
interacted I never I never went to never
went to searched out it feels good I
never even accidentally no one ever even
you know fuck with me on that really
well that's good that's about
summarizing yeah that is surprising
given the circles you travel in yeah I
would imagine eventually someone would
be like enough is enough
get this guy fucked up it's to be funny
yeah this would be really funny yeah it
seems like someone would have met would
have fit in someone's sense of humor
there's some great who knows this may be
the day no if you really want to say the
word open up the box of doom you box it
- how often do you do uh psychedelics oh
yes I can do not that often a couple
times a year
oh yeah like I mean we did mushrooms on
a podcast a couple months ago but that
was a small dose but the tank is my
friend
I tried century to have one right here
yeah I want your size I'm winning yeah
yeah yeah I went to one of these places
where you pay him X amount of money to
go in because my buddy Tim Jenison we
did a movie called Tim's Vermeer where
he painted a Vermeer in his garage and
Tim was really into that I'll do
anything Tim does I just I just loved
him and so I went and you know whatever
you pay a few bucks in here you're going
to float in the tank and I was so ready
IFS this happened so much in my life I
get so ready for a major change in my
life the first time I wanted to become a
vegan I went out with a friend this was
like in 1990 and he was the guy was
making fun of brutally ripping him the
fuck apart for his stupid eating you
know and I said listen I want to go out
with you to a restaurant just eat
vegetables and I'm not going to
interrupt you I'm not going to make
funny you talked to me for three hours
about all your Peter Singer stuff all
your ethical vegetarian stuff and you
convert me that's all I want you to do
ah that was the reason
I went out that was the reason I went
out with him and I finished up the whole
evening and I went you know I really
respected your point of view until I
understood it then
motherfucker talked me out of doing what
I wanted to do and so I got ready man
with the with with the isolation tank I
said this will be good
he's talking about this I'm just gonna
go there sensory deprivation I'll just
let my mind wander and I went in there
it was just salty and I was bumping
against walls yeah yeah you it's you
need to get used to it it's like no
meditation try meditating once you're
like I couldn't concentrate yeah
meditating once is useful yes yeah it's
you how often you do the tank all the
time I used to have one of my you're not
in it now no I used to have one in my
house and now I just have it here but
it's a very valuable tool and you
meditate as well yeah I meditate I like
to meditate for shows I've been doing a
lot more lately but the tank is a great
place to meditate as well because it's
meditation squared it's meditation
without any external stimulation so I
can climb in there and you follow do you
follow breathing rules and yes if you
would do a normal what kind of
meditation do you do when you meditate
Oh doing what I've been doing lately is
all I do is concentrate on my breath
other things get in there but I just say
breathe in breathe out breathe in
breathe out breathe in breathes out and
I just concentrate on long slow rhythmic
breaths and I get myself into this weird
state and you know this will come in ah
you got a fucking low front tire you
gotta you got to get that filled this is
you need this the your inspection
sticker and the bullshit comes in but I
just breathe in breathe out force it out
force it out and after five or ten
minutes of this I can get to a nice
state where I can just keep doing and
keep doing it but in the tank it's very
accentuated because in the tank I don't
have to think about my butt in the seat
my hands on the table I don't to think
about anything else just I'm just lying
there what you're experiencing when
you're talking about bumping into the
walls that's just a technique thing when
you when you lie in it right you get
the tank first of all you need a big
tank you're a giant guy there's a lot of
those little pods those are those are
barely big enough for me
you know it's for a guy like you you
need a large one and you lie down on the
tank and then you put your hands on one
wall and your hand on the other wall and
you let the water still because there's
gonna be a lot of little ripples when
you're floating because you're so
buoyant there's a thousand pounds of
epsom salts in there and you're floating
and it's easy to just kind of bounce
back and forth so you put your hands
there till they steady and then once the
ripples kind of stop then you slowly
bring your hands down and then when you
slowly bring your hands down you do it
really slow so you know making any
ripples and then lay there and then you
could be in the exact same position for
hours and that's that's how it's a
technique you just you have to Center
yourself how long do you do is there two
hours is what I like I'm doing I'll do
an hour if I'm in a rush
and I have a washing before what is yeah
I mean if I can't spend any more time
than an hour but I have a tape recorder
that's voice-activated and its velcro
and so I can stick it up inside the
thing so if I have an idea which I do
sometimes sometimes I have this
temptation fuck I got to get out of here
I got to write this down I can just say
it and the the tape recorder will pick
it up had there been brilliant stuff you
said no nothing I've never used it once
you haven't gotten out of the tank and
had satisfaction no there's all that
Keith Richards that nobody went to sleep
really he had this sound activated
recorder that he got by the side of the
bed and and his guitar and he went to
sleep one night woke up the next morning
there on the tape recorder oh there was
some voice activation in the night he
played it it was satisfaction my friend
Matt yep
no I haven't had that yeah my friend
works at a school in Connecticut where
his kids go or Keith Richards kids go
and Keith Richards will ride on a bike
to school with a fucking bandanna on and
like my friends like holy shit that's
Keith Richards like he's just kind of
hanging around with normal people and he
said it freaks you out when you see him
you're like what that's fucking Keith
Richards he just hangs out just like you
know he's a giant superstar but he
drifts into the
world and just freaks people out yeah
it's it's it's it's I mean I only met
Keith Richards in groups of people happy
that were what's really like bicycling
into here yeah but still it's so it's so
amazing surreal so serious
he's an epic human yes the voice
recorded things new that's why I haven't
had any new it's a new idea that I had
because there's times that I did this
solution to this team thing and the and
the separation of America and giving
more polarized that's gonna be solved by
Joe and the tank at some point we can
count on that know now that you've got
the record think we're gonna solve it
ourselves I think we're gonna solve it
ourselves through just time I think as
we're getting back to Pinker we're
talking about Pinker earlier that he
gets so much shit for saying that things
are better now than ever
it doesn't dismiss horrific acts of take
place or terrible thing and it doesn't
say that the battle is over right no I
mean this is one of the things that I
would push in my little microcosm push
for so hard in Penn & Teller
you know teller and I would have real
trouble just crossing a finish line I
would just say to him you know tell her
we've done five seasons of bullshit and
it went well let's go out the two of us
have coffee and doughnuts and let's just
say wow we did that and then push ahead
for the next thing and I would just I
just think that Pinker is like that with
me Pinker's like saying you know human
beings we're doing okay we're doing okay
we've done some really good things now
let's get back to work we're most
certainly doing better than ever before
and I think that's an accumulative thing
it's like Kingdom Come and if we don't
destroy the environment yeah if those
two things it's the two enormous ifs
we're in very good shape they are the
thing that blew my mind about Pinker and
that in that book better angels blew my
mind is there's this line that's that
that's been obsessing me with a cracker
in teen angst I don't know what the
world may mean but I sure as hell know
it starts with me and that's a wisdom
I've laughed at
all this shit that I've laughed at that
turns out to be true for me now it just
makes me smile and fills me with joy you
know early part of the 20th century all
these authors and artists and all these
guys were saying Hemingway instead we're
going to stop war by writing about war
and writing about how bad it was and
we're gonna give empathy for other
people and we'll understand this and
we're gonna really with our art make an
effort to make humanity better what a
jackoff bullshit thing to do I think
there's can you imagine something more
that's just twiddling your dick than
saying that oh I'm gonna do art I'm
gonna write and it's gonna change the
line poetry and then Pinker's book says
why is all this stuff getting better so
fast we think it may be art that baby
empathy and it turns out that all this
stuff people are saying about you know
we can change we can change how people
see ya warfare and how people see one
another and that's what scares me so
much about how some people speak of and
I think it's because I don't understand
it usually when I'm against something it
means I don't understand it but when
they talk about cultural appropriation
cultural appropriation seems to me to be
the greatest thing you can possibly do
to see the world through the eyes of
someone who grew up differently than you
to even try to do that for even for us
to pretend right now to be a you know a
white nationalist even trying to do that
seems like it's a really good thing for
us try ten just said just into their
head just to try to fantasize what it's
like to be for instance a
african-american transgender man if we
try to do that we're writing a piece of
art and we try to see ourselves from
that point of view I'm not I'm not
herself see the world from that point of
view that seems like nothing but healthy
it seems like that takes you out of your
identification well I think there's a
lot of what we're calling cull
to appropriation that is really people
trying to tell other people what to do
because people enjoy telling people they
can't do that anymore and getting angry
at those people they enjoy it they enjoy
pushing buttons people you give them a
rock in a window they want to throw that
rock through the window this is a
natural part of being a person and if
you see a girl with hoop earrings like
bitch take those earrings off those are
for Latinos or those are for this so
those are that I mean and the argument
is so often not even based historically
like the earring thing like fuck man
what are you from sumar like that's the
oldest known hoop earring that's all
just from Babylon it's also what I don't
know if this is this is not Pinker this
is no Rory who who talks about when
you're talking about cultural stuff how
far back you're going right I mean there
are no tomatoes in Italy Brian oh sure
yeah tomatoes are not indigenous to
Italy it came from China yeah potatoes
are from Ireland they don't start there
you know so you have to keep going back
it was a great you know Paul Simon gets
so much shit for Graceland you know and
and and David Byrne gets so much shit
for stuff and there's this wonderful
thing and David Burns book how music
works which is a fabulous book he
doesn't ever address this picking things
from other cultures ever but he talks
very strongly about the African kinds of
music and the influences they have from
other places you know because there is
not there is not a culture other than
the whole world especially not now yeah
you might be able to have made the
argument 200 years ago there were Pat
the thing is though that people enjoy
cultures so if that is the case and
everything does assimilate and becomes
one big gray mass we're worried that
we're gonna lose Indian food right we're
worried that we're gonna lose I have no
worry of that at all no I have no worry
because I think that me loving son raw
even though I'm not african-american and
me loving Lenny Bruce even though I'm
not even and identify as Jewish I think
that loving these kind of cultures
should not be based on an accident
birth the loving thing is one thing
though I think the real fear of culture
appropriations that people will take on
those things as their own like there's a
gentleman I'm trying to remember his
name he's a famous Mexican chef but he's
not Mexican but he cooks Mexican food he
cooks it in Chicago Walt Bayliss is that
his name
something Bayless Rick Bayless Rick
Bayless heat this guy has an undeniable
passion for Mexican cuisine I mean he
fucking loves it he has a couple
different restaurants we cooks Mexican
food and he was getting protested and
people were furious at him because they
had just decided at one point if this
guy's had like you know a thirty fucking
year of being in love with Mexican
cuisine and being like a real historian
of Mexican cuisine workwear comes from
the regions the ingredients like where's
the best ingredients where's the best
places to cook these things how they do
it why they did it this way and I mean
speaks with incredible passion about
this they were deciding that he's a
white guy and he shouldn't shouldn't be
able to do this shouldn't be able to
sell this shouldn't be able to like do
you fucking assholes like this is the
guy right he's helping everyone
recognize the beauty of this
much-maligned food when you when people
think about Mexican cuisine he is one of
the rare people in Western culture that
talks about it like it's five-star
cuisine so many people talk about oh I
love street tacos and fucking I'm a big
fan of quesadillas know this guy's
talking about the very best Mexican
cuisine in the world and trying to
interpret that and sell it to people and
trying to turn people on to how good
this food is and yeah he was taking so
much shit
when a person that wasn't born in that
accident of birth to be a hair falls in
love with another culture I don't see
why that isn't more beautiful yes
yeah that's that's that's that's what
I'm looking for that Stevie Segal yeah
he moved to Japan master before he
became kind of silly he was one of the
very first guys to ever teach Aikido in
a dojo in Japan that wasn't Japanese I
think he actually was the first I think
it was the first American to ever run a
dojo in Japan so now okay giving me on
psychedelics is very easy compared
getting me to really dig Stevens I'm not
sure I do
I do appreciate his first movie above
the law I appreciate what he look he
likes his prepositions he's a silly felt
silly fella for sure many of us are but
what he he did do is he learned Aikido
at a very very high level like
undeniably and he was teaching it in
Japan he spoke perfect Japanese and it
was a very rare guy you know now you
know became a Hollywood guy in movies
and who knows what the fuck outs and
became enormous you know physically got
that and it's you know he's kind of
silly now but at one point in time that
guy was as legit as it gets
isn't that always true weakness you know
what I'm gonna completely change the
subject is if I measure you know I want
to talk about when you came on my radio
show with Phil Plait about talking about
the moon-landing yeah but what I what I
think is fascinating about this about
clubs and stuff you know is I you know
and I I know I've read here and there
that you've you've gone back and a lot
of that your conspiracy stuff and some
yeah but that that's not that's not
explain that to I don't know what I'm
talking about you know this is this is
the thing I have zero astrophysics
education zero I don't know anything
about whether or not it's possible to
put people on the moon I do know fuckery
and I do know teams and I do know I do
understand what people are bullshitting
people and I think there's a lot of that
with with a lot of the NASA stuff a lot
of the older stuff in particular there
was a lot of manipulation of images and
putting things on mind that may not have
actually really happened because it was
press releases and there's an image of
Michael Collins from like Gemini 15
that's a very clear image of him doing a
simulation like in a studio with straps
and harnesses and then someone from NASA
or someone put that exact same in image
blacked out the background and used it
as a photo of a space moon and it's not
real you know but they sold it as real
there was some overzealous shit like
that that if your
totally minded you might say uh once
once you start lying yes you know what's
the area 51 and stuff yeah we know they
lied motherfuckers yeah and that's the
problem but I just want to compliment
you and I just also think this is really
interesting you know so Joe Rogan
believes this crazy shit we didn't go to
the moment I know Joe Rogan we're on it
we're on a radio show together uh he's a
good guy we did Fear Factor but he
believes this shit let's let's have him
talk to someone who's real so I call
Phil Plait do I don't know that well
right but he's the bad astronomer and he
knows this shit and I say I really want
you to come on my radio show and just
talk to Joe Rogan about about the moon
landing moon landing and Phil says oh no
problem we'll just go on there what
we'll set him straight my god I just
want to warn you have your ducks in a
row
cuz Joe's really good and he goes well
Joe's Joe's comic right yeah and that's
your problem because Joe's better at
talking than you Joe knows when the
commercials are coming Joe knows how to
make a joke and Joe knows also how to
set you up and take you down he oh no no
no it'll be no problem I said you
understand that he's smart
he's a comic right yeah not a national
physicist but you understand he's smart
and he's also you are going into his
form we're gonna be on radio this guy is
done a lot of radio this guy's talk to a
lot of people so just have all your
facts in line and then we're sitting
there cuz you know you were you were on
the phone and gadot who's on my podcast
with me too
sitting across from me and we're
listening and you come in and you come
in humble and charming and sexy and with
perfect timing on everything and Phil
place says well I go oh man Joe is wrong
and Joe is gonna fucking win and I said
I set this up so that um so that it will
be a fit be fair my whole thing of doing
this away i bill boarded it was I'm just
gonna have two guys
from two points of view I'm not supposed
to commit that order fury member but the
whole show heads and I go oh by the way
we did land on the moon I just tried to
do this final authority thing and Phil
said that was wrong he yeah and I said
yes yeah and it's just that idea that
you can't you know his idea was there's
the science team that's right and then
there's just goofy comic and trying to
get Phil Plait to understand that a
goofy comic was not a goofy comic and I
believe that the only thing that the
SATs truly test is how good you'll be
that can be as a comedian that kind of
verbal it was a wonderful thing to
listen to it was wonderful to listen to
someone who I believe absolutely was
100% wrong yeah it was just so skilled
and so moral and so thoughtful and so
humble you had everything going for you
that I respect except it didn't happen
to be right well we don't know what
happened we assumed that what we see is
what happened we assumed that with the
scientists tell us was hat was what
happened we assumed that what NASA told
us was what happened when you say I know
this happened right you're not always
correct exactly oftentimes correct I
know Kennedy got assassinated in Dallas
I've seen the video I know he got
assassinated Dallas I don't know if Lee
Harvey Oswald did it I don't know I
assume he was involved it seems like he
was yeah was there other people involved
too I assume there were and one of the
reasons why I assume there were the
magic bullet the fucking the guy who got
hit with the ricochet under the overpass
do you want you to know that I made the
shot with the mannlicher-carcano oh yeah
it could be mayor
oh that's horseshit listen I've talked
about that in in in length and all I
heard y'all towards that yeah well
there's a lot of things there's a lot of
things there's there's a lot of things
we could you know go over the Kennedy
assassination there's a lot of things
I'm not on Louisa beware nor are we good
are we gonna solve the polarization in
America or are we gonna solve the
Kennedy assassination or are we gonna
solve the bullet Oliver or you what do
all of them okay I just want to know
what our goals were the moon Lane
is a conspiracy theories dream of
conspiracy theorists dream because it's
got everything in place it's got this
incredible technological achievement
it's got these three guys that look
incredibly nervous at the post-landing
press conference and they look all
sketched out it's got these guys that
don't do interviews afterwards it's got
no one ever lands on the moon again
after 1973 or whatever it was it's got
all these technological achievements but
we never get outside of Earth's
atmosphere again we're always inside of
Earth's orbit there's so many beautiful
things that conspiracy theorists can
grasp hold of them go see it's bullshit
but it doesn't mean it's but it doesn't
mean it didn't happen
there's the Van Allen radiation belts
there's that we never even sent a
chicken in a deep space and had to come
back alive there's all these things but
it doesn't mean it didn't happen and
that my problem was and this is you know
and people said oh you know you've sold
out you're a shill now and like no no
I'm just being honest now whereas before
I wasn't being honest with myself and I
wasn't being honest about the subject I
do not know whether or not people went
to the moon I was pretending that I knew
that people didn't go to the moon and I
was arguing it that way I was on a team
I was on team it's bullshit we didn't go
to the moon and you you really can't do
that accurately it can't be done you can
say this is what's interesting this is
what I find curious this is what's weird
the fact there's not a single
technological achievement from 1969
that's not cheaper easier and faster to
reproduce today except going to the moon
one of the rare things in life still
doesn't mean it didn't happen right like
Occam's razor is a slippery thing
because there's a weird shit that
happens you got to take that into
account like there's no absolutes it's
not one thing if you can say well there
is a rule and this rule must be followed
and here's that rule it doesn't work
that way the world is made of weird
stuff and I'm also the the the idea
there's there's a thing that's changed
there was an article in The Times about
this and you might have even been
mentioned in it there's a a playful
space of conspiracy theories
mm-hmm that it's taking me a long time
to understand my daughter is 14 and she
talks about you know her father did a
show called bullshit and she talks about
how she loves conspiracy theories and
this is from Paul McCartney's dead 2 we
didn't land on the moon to all those
things but she sees it which I so hard
for me to understand she sees it is not
impacting reality but is a playful
internal intellectual exercise I don't
know what's going on but there's this
wonderful article in The Times and you
were mentioned there too but there's
also another guy who does it who will do
this to use a cliche a cavity of a
better one going down the rabbit hole
mmm of conspiracy stuff playing around
with the logic that almost feels like a
mathematical thing or a pure
philosophical thing or or angels dancing
on the head of a pin thing and there's a
quality that you have learned that my
daughter has learned indirectly I think
from you through other people doing this
of there is a playful space we discuss
how we how we share our reality that is
happening in the conspiracy theory art
form and the conspiracy theory art form
is now seeming to me to be more like rap
or rock and roll or it's just a form a
thing where you play around with this
kind of thing and I am so literal-minded
so verbal minded you know Bob Dylan's
easy for me the stones are hard you know
zappas easy twentieth century classical
is easy but just funk is hard for me and
it's the same kind of thing here it's
really easy for me to say we are doing
the old-fashioned scientific inquiry and
this is falsifiable but there is
something
in our thinking that's really
interesting that I had to have my
daughter explained to me and the New
York Times after I already knew you and
watched you do it
well you've all you've always been a
champion of science and reason right and
conspiracy theories for the most part
fly in the face of science and reason
and it you don't want to be a buffoon no
but very happening but it's tricky and
you don't people don't want to be a fool
well I'm a professional fool I don't
mind being a fool and you know being
self-deprecating and being a moron it's
part of being a comic it's fun the the
conspiracy theory world went south for
me when I did a television show right I
did that Joe Rogan questions everything
she owned I spent six seven months doing
this show and at the end of it I was
like okay I get it this is a bunch of
unfuckable white guys that's what it
really is that's what I decided I said
yeah I had a bit about it I said you
want the one thing you don't find when
you're looking for Bigfoot
black people you're more likely to find
Bigfoot than you are black guy that's
looking for Bigfoot it is a bunch of
unfuckable white dudes out camping and
listened to what did you hear that what
is that you know it's like it's nonsense
like you're you're wrapped up in this
idea that there's a mystery and there's
a something there's a thing a quality
about human beings where we want to
uncover secrets who want to be the
person that finds out the truth because
then you're miserable shitty fucking
life now doesn't matter the fucking
aliens are real man they're here and aha
the one of the best feelings we can get
probably better than coming is that
feeling of aha
I understand I've gotten a revelation
and we see this all the time detective
shows you know Sherlock Holmes you know
nothing to do with police work yeah but
there is a feeling that wouldn't it be
nice if in this hour I were able to
figure something out because if you want
to understand string theory you're not
gonna do it an hour understand even
let's take it easy let's take a candle
flame I'm never gonna understand that
right ah studying that forever and
there's there's an area where conspiracy
theories are
exercising the muscles of logic
exercising the muscles of skepticism
playing around with the wood the Haiku
of if then if then playing around with
what we feel about the government and
other people and stuff like that and
you're playing around with all of that
in kind of a semi safe zone and even
watching you just do it here
well you will you will you bang out that
stuff and say this is the stuff I
question what's coming out of that
poetically and I thought let's not even
talk about whether we went to the moon
or not what's coming out of your style
of inquiry on that kind of thing your
style of skepticism is just fascinating
and beautiful and I see the conspiracy
thing as not so much a breaking down
which I used to see it as a breaking
down of science and reason but I see it
as rather a a creation of a new form of
poetry that's weird I don't know my
daughter just said my daughter just says
you know I really like conspiracy
theories and I say to her you know Paul
McCartney's still alive right but you
know she's 14 and you're Penn Jillette
so she's rebelling you're babe just told
me something really important it was to
dirt down there real life it's like Neil
Gaiman --zz daughter coming in all gaunt
out he'll say to her I invented this you
can't do this this is not the way you
can repel you can't rubella get to be
like this you can't do with blond hair
and eyeshadow you can't do it but yeah
yeah well kids you know they find their
own way and they want to express
themselves you know they want to exert
power over their world but did you see
that article that you're mentioning no I
did not it was it was I not to read
anything that I mentioned that I mean to
I briefly do often times and I'm like I
try to never read anything in mind
because it's not written for us right
that's not I'll tell you the exact
moment that happened to me that was so
great it was in the 80s we were on
Broadway and the Coen brothers were just
starting to do movies you know and I was
really interested in you know and I had
I had like an hour free which one I was
doing Stern and Letterman and Saturday
Night Live and on Broadway I never had
an hour free and I was a magazine like
Vanity Fair something who cares fuck
what it was and it said what the Coen
brothers are really like what is like to
work with the Coen brothers okay and I
said I never read magazine I'm gonna buy
this I'll learn about the Coen brothers
up to our office you know it's like the
Brill Building
you know Lorne Michaels and sit in my
office open it up but the Coen brothers
liked her into that page they said if
you want to know what the Coen brothers
are like it's like hanging out with Penn
and Teller and I went close the magazine
put it aside and they were going on
comparing him I went I have no
information on this none there's no way
I can access it in that moment I went oh
wait a minute when it says Penn Jillette
in an article or in a book there's no
way I can understand that maybe others
can write you know so when it says in
the article you know when Joe Rogan does
conspiracy stuff done you can't
understand that it's like Mike desmos
said to me the major problem with
talking to Jimi Hendrix was he never
heard Jimi Hendrix
you never saw Jimi Hendrix on stage he
couldn't and you know so you are the one
person that using Joe Rogan is an
example you know well you know kind of a
proletariat kind of a kind of a does
this bro culture this is Joe you can't
understand that you have no idea what
that means cuz you're an individual
what's also people are trying to
encapsulate you sure brief moments and I
might have seen a video or heard you
talk but it'd be something to other
people it means something it also it you
can easily categorize someone and put
them in this box and
I've defined that oh I know what that is
before like hanging out with Penn
Jillette yeah it's also part of your job
yeah part of your job one of the things
you've created is you've created
something in the culture that means the
New York Times can say Joe Rogan and
they're people reading that know what
that means but there's no way Joe Rogan
can know what that know you can pretend
right or you could be like Trump and get
mad about it you know where the rubber
hits the road with conspiracy theories
right now Jeffrey Epstein oh yeah that's
where the rubber hits the road where
people that are not conspiratorial and
minded we're like wait what the fuck is
going on what all the cameras were bad
all the guy was on suicide watch he
tried to commit suicide and then they're
like well don't do that again and then
he did it like if you talk to people
that have been locked up they take away
everything man you've been on suicide
watch
they fucking take away everything mmm
and you find this guy he's got a broken
neck and he hung himself like how how
did he hang himself can we see the video
footage all sorry the cameras are broke
I think of yourself is wicked hard it's
not easy oh yeah it's not easy it's not
easy when you're in a jail and they tell
you better Jim no no I was only in jail
overnight but I mean they if you're on
suicide watch man they make it hard for
you to kill yourself that's you and if
you're is that what suicide watch means
yes that watch thank you they watch you
so you can't kill yourself again that's
they watch you every 30 minutes what the
fuck was this psychologist thinking that
took this guy off suicide watch
literally a couple of weeks after he
tried to commit suicide if someone tried
to commit suicide you know not speaking
as who a guy's had friends commit
suicide they're fucking thinking about
it for years man some of them they go
back and forth days okay some of them
some of them just do yes some of them
just do that but when someone does
actively try it they're not going to
just be fine while they're in fucking
prison awaiting trial for having sex
with kids it seems like Geoffrey
Epstein's life was gonna get really
worse from what it was a few months
before could be or other people's lives
are going to get really worse because
Jeffrey Epstein is now in jail and
they're digging
into his past and well I only flew with
him 26 times 26 times it ain't a lot of
times to fly with a guy I don't
understand what the big deal is we flew
in a jet we rode a bus together he was
on the by my bike do you know do you
know people that know Jeffrey Epstein
yes yeah yeah I did me too and a lot of
them it really was that yeah talk to him
well a little bit there's many people
that feel like he was an agent and that
he was trying to compromise people and
that's one of the things about this
whole Lolita Island thing is that they
would compromise people they would
compromise people by having a bunch of
young girls or very sexy who were hired
to go and flirt and maybe even have sex
with people and that these people were
young these girls were like 17 underage
may perhaps underage some places perhaps
not underage other places but incredibly
embarrassing and you know for the people
an agent compromised for whom who knows
I mean there's a lot of thoughts but
that's one of the things about when he
got arrested the the was that the
prosecutor whoever was a cut in the deal
literally was quoted as saying I was
told he's above my pay grade
yeah and that he was intelligence that's
the quote really the teller just think
try to find that quote yeah try to find
that quote yes the guy said this was
when he gave him a lenient sentence many
years ago Wow for something no one seems
to know how he got his money
well the fucking 70 million dollar
penthouse that he had in Manhattan was
given to him right given to him yeah who
the fuck gives someone a 70 million
dollar house well I was kind of hoping
you would to me I don't have one okay if
I have a bunch of all I give you one I
got a run here to get a seventy million
dollar house ah you were told wrong yeah
yeah yeah I think the guy
it's I think there look I've talked to
people many times that work for
intelligence agencies and there's a lot
of weird shit that they do and one of
the things that they do to compromised
people as they get them involved in
weird stuff that could be very bad for
them it comes out and then they have
influence over this person and if you
got a guy with a voracious sexual
appetite
I mean there's a few little fellas out
there and you know hey I'm out of energy
I'm at office now I'm gonna fucking
hanging out having a good time with
Jeffrey and we're just flying around I
mean come on man it's it's it's highly
likely one of the guys that I know that
knew him was also a freak like a sexual
freak and I'm like okay I think I think
I see a pattern here this it's very
likely that that's what was going on
this guy was compromising people and
probably absolutely a sex addict himself
and I believe all the women would say
all the horrible things that he did to
them and hired them for things and had
underage girls do sexual things with him
it's probably true probably true he's
probably a fucked up twisted dude but
many people that are involved even in
good things get compromised like there's
many people that work for the CIA that
were legitimate CIA operatives who wound
up selling drugs there's a lot of this
happens people go sideways people get
involved in shady activities that are
cops there's cops that wind up doing
illegal things they signed on to be a
cop to be a person who's gonna serve and
protect and be involved in the community
and slowly but surely they get
compromised and they get involved in
illegal activity and next thing you know
they're corrupt it happens and then
sometimes people fucking suicide
themselves and the people that that I
know that knew him it was they weren't
even aware of the seedy stuff going on
so uh and of course that's gonna be true
too
well he was that would be a hundred
percent he was also a champion of
science yes isn't he
but that's the thing about people they
can be really good sure in some ways and
horrible in other ways this idea that
people are binary or one or a zero is
nonsense yeah there's really good people
that do terrible things there's really
terrible people that also do good things
you know like look fucking Trump just
pass something you know and no one wants
to give him credit fancy stuff was the
kid minister he did he did wonderful
stuff for kidney transplants stuff I'm
sure he pushed through well I was gonna
say that he absorbed all the student
loans for disabled veterans mhm
fantastic I love it you don't hear a
word about a word of praise look we
should absolve student loans for fucking
everyone we're crippling kids
we're crippling the
17 18 year-old kids who sign up for
these fucking loans and they get
compromised to the point where we have
people to this day right now that are
getting their Social Security money
their Social Security money is getting
docked because they Osten lawns they're
at the end of the fucking Road but what
do you do what do you do and this is a
real question this is not rhetorical
what do you do about the feeling of
fairness the people that work their way
through college waiting tables that's
good working really hard and then they
do we just say their feelings which i
think is valid which is yeah yeah you
got fucked on this but let's help
someone else out what am i here
compassion here's the guys you know
there are people that worked really hard
to not have student loans yes and there
are people that took them there has to
be somebody who took them frivolously a
hundred percent I think quite a few and
I think it's also we also should pay
attention to the human mind and the
development of the human mind the
frontal cortex and the frontal lobe does
not develop properly until you're 25
years old right right so somewhere
somewhere in that rustle - for you it's
definitely not 17 it's definitely not 18
guns so you're taking on these fucking
loans you you can't be trusted with
money or your future or thinking about
what the fuck you're doing in terms of
like taking on a debt of bodies of
thousands don't we have to and this also
ties in with with the sexual stuff as
well don't we have to decide when
someone's adult and then give them that
respect yes
I think we have I say you're 18 years
old we can't control what decisions you
make yes yes and when is that you're
gonna be because I think 25 is too old I
think 25 is too old as well but I think
what we're saying is I mean look there's
a lot of 18 year old people that make
very good moral decisions yes and we
should we should praise that here's the
problem with the student loan thing in
terms of the few that's the only loans
that you never get exonerated from you
can get bankruptcy right and you can get
exonerated you can you could escape the
loans of credit cards the debt of
mortgages you could escape a bad
business collab
and owing millions in whatever you could
escape that through bankruptcy you
cannot do that with student loans it's a
corrupt system you take a child who's
trying to learn a trade or trying to
learn a profession and you acquire
insane debt that's gonna track you and
cripple you for the rest of your life
and no matter what happens to you you
owe that money but also you're taking
your colleges out of the free market
- hmm by giving those by giving those
loans easily yes and by having
government help yes also you're also
taking away the free market yes because
you know we found out that when you put
the free market in like LASIK surgery
when insurance doesn't cover it
it gets wicked cheap mmm you know and if
colleges had to be paid as people went
without easy loans to get and if
colleges did not get government money
they might be wicked cheaper I think
they would be really really expensive I
think yes crazy expensive I think the
real solution is in treating education
like a thing that's going to make our
society better and and think of it as
the same way we think about the fire
department the same way you think about
police don't think that I mean when you
read the paper
there's always one whole thing about
colleges getting too expensive and
people can't go to Canada and then you
turn 20 pages later in the paper and
there's an article about how online
learning is gonna happen is happening
you know all this stuff is gonna happen
do you think that that idea of college
is gonna hold up for another ten years I
think there's an experience that people
do go away I did but I went to college
in my town I went to UMass Boston and I
really only went because I didn't want
to be a loser it was really all it was I
was doing martial arts and fighting and
traveling all over the world or all over
the country rather and and thinking
about doing stand-up at the time as well
and then transitioning to doing stand-up
while I was also still taking classes I
was learning nothing it was a complete
waste of time I was only doing it so I
could say yeah taking classes at UMass
Boston barely paying attention barely
showing up and it was just a thing that
I
didn't want to tell people that I wasn't
going to college like that was the
number one reason why I did it but I but
that was I had a unique life from the
time I was you know graduating from high
school to the time I started doing
stand-up I was obsessed with martial
arts and competing and that's all I
wanted to do is make the Olympic team
for Taekwondo that's what that was my
goal and that's what I was trying to do
so I wasn't a normal person I wasn't
like I wasn't gonna go to Ohio and
fucking travel over there and take a
full course load and not be able to
pursue what I wanted what I wanted to do
was also you've got a window
athletically yeah athletically that's
its purpose no there was no scholarships
for Taekwondo and doesn't it didn't
exist and the only other option was the
army there was a dude his name is clay
barbers this really talented guy was a
fighter who was on the US team at one
point in time I think and he was
competing through the army like they
they had subsidized his training somehow
or another and I was thinking maybe I
should join the army like that was the
other the only other thing that I was
thinking about doing but for people I
think there's a thing about getting away
from your parents getting away from them
getting away from their influence being
wild and crazy and be with a bunch of
other kids and trying to find yourself
and I think that comes from traveling to
a place and going to college and I think
there's there's some benefit in that I
have friends that have had great benefit
in that the sort of transformative
experience of being on a campus a
physical campus in a place that's
outside of their hometown where it gives
them this new experience where they get
to try to reinvent them there's no doubt
about that yeah being able to be someone
else yeah and I wonder I wonder if all
of that why are we giving that a four
year period why isn't that our whole
lives you know it could be should be and
isn't that the way that's gonna change
cuz people aren't having jobs for the
whole life anymore and by the way the
liberal arts education was never
supposed to teach people to trade it was
always supposed to make it so that young
men could talk in it parties yeah we
could have the same cultural thing we
can tell about Shakespeare we can talk
about this we can talk about that but
none of this was meant to give people
jobs well it's so rigid right you get
out of high school high school is this
torturous affair we're being a
square peg they're trying to shove into
a round hold and you get out and then
they fly off to wherever the fuck you're
gonna go to school and you go there and
you're forced with this overbearing
workload of school and and then social
things you're trying to figure out
what's okay and what's not okay now
where's the safe space and well am i
what am I am I allowed to say this and
am I allowed to say that and what are
the new rules now for this new
generation or are we really going to
change the world and then also in you're
out in the world and you realize that
fucking money that you spent more that
loan that you got is not getting you a
job and you're fucked and you can't get
a job and you're also massively in debt
and severely depressed and trying to
figure out your future I mean this is on
adderall we're setting people up we're
setting people up for a horrible failure
I am with Bernie Sanders in that I think
education should be free and I don't
think that's a bad thing I think we earn
it I think you should have to earn it
how about if education is really cheap
like everything else is getting cheaper
mommy TVs are really true you think we
can watch what we catch more expensive I
think we can pay for it with tax maybe
or the individuals could pay for maybe
the individual sheep but if it made
sense if it made sense yeah I mean if
you want to learn something now we know
this very well if you want to learn
anything now you can get it for free on
the web you definitely can do many
things I mean other than physical things
there's a lot of physical things that
you need to be taught about coach yeah I
think there's a lot of things you can
learn online and even the physical
things you can get a big chunk of it
from online I mean what I mean let's
let's talk about all the matters okay
let's talk about juggling you know I
grew up as a juggler when you were doing
the Taekwondo I was juggling all the
time that's all I did
and that was my whole life was juggling
and what happened was with the internet
juggling got tremendously better because
people could watch videos of things they
knew were possible and get better if
juggling could get better physics
certainly can it seems like you can take
a course at any college online and if
you sincerely want to learn you know I
don't know if we need to have this what
is what is the term called the me when
the Amish take their one year of Rumbles
I'm spring break I don't think we need a
nationally tax subsidized drum spring
right every person the country I don't
think what it is yes you go to college
but you've just described yeah yeah it
seems like live your fucking life
there isn't this four-year magic period
or this two-year magic period and go out
and learn the stuff you want to learn I
mean you know we both have children and
they'll be talking about going to
college and of course my but not of
course but my wife will push very hard
for college and my thinking is anything
they want to learn they can they can
just learn it yeah you know by the way
this was also true with just the
libraries in local towns yeah it's just
more true now it's even easier now you
know I can't imagine growing up where my
my son can type in Lenny Bruce and it
all just pops up right I mean that was
an amazing story ordering order it yeah
yeah they didn't rippen's gribbins music
store in Greenfield Massachusetts did
not have the Carnegie Hall concert right
there the stache an order all right
Frank Zappa I'm back a one of his
records mensches Lenny Bruce and he's on
Sgt pepper
I guess I should learn about him Lenny
break that down that's how I learned
about Terence Mckenna
I learned about Terence Mckenna from
listening to a Bill Hicks record yeah
yeah I was like who's this McKenna and
what's a heroic dose did at Frank Zappa
one of his records I forget what you did
is I think it's freak out but it might
be absolutely free says on the back do
not listen to this song until you've
read Franz Kafka in the penal comedy I
got the record opened it up it said that
I listened to one side get to that song
got on my bike rode down to the
Greenfield Public Library Kafka I got
this written down Kafka in the penal
colony sat there read it went back
listened to the record my entire
education starts with Mike Nesmith of
the monkeys who said listen to Zappa
listen to Hendricks from Zappa to Lenny
Bruce from Lenny Bruce to the whole
world
and I believed that
that is available to everybody all the
time I mean I don't know as I would say
taxpayers should pay for college I think
I would say do we need college isn't
that fading away I think there's a real
benefit to being in a classroom with a
brilliant professor yeah yeah I think
there is but we're also seeing with with
TED Talks which I know a jive but there
is a there's also you know you know
their job there can be a lot of job TED
Talks there's some jive TED Talks yeah
yeah but what I'm saying is I went to
one of the first TED conferences and and
you got to hear um you know all these
credible people speaking it was
mind-blowing and I wasn't college-age I
was you know I was whatever I was 45 or
something 40 and it was it was an
amazing spirit jonas salk you know i sat
and listened to jonas salk talk yeah
I've been in a room with brilliant
people speaking and it's really really
great but I I think we can we can
deliver that cheaper and that's the side
of Bernie Sanders I want to talk about
it's not
can we give endless amounts of money
these fucking people on college campuses
can we pay them all the money in the
world to take our children and give them
something to do in between smoke and
dope
could we rather just say can't we make
this experience cheap enough so that
anybody can go and experience it why
don't you why why is it possible for you
for a few bucks to go and be in a room
with a brilliant person I think that
would be a thing that would be
beneficial to almost anybody at any
point in time instead of the rigid
structure of like you know this is you
know you have to get all this work done
by X amount of time that's the other
thing that happens the kids - they're
they're taught about having no sleep and
about beating your body up and about
cramming and about getting all this work
done in a short period of time they're
really we're really preparing them for a
horrible job and all this shit that
doesn't work you know all that weird
that weird kind of hazing shit that we
do for medical professionals you're
gonna work for 40
fuck never one saying it's terrible for
the patient we're bad for everybody yeah
you know so my and you just made the
argument about the frontal cortex and
you're not really ready to you 25b what
are the huge advantages I had in my life
was a shitty shitty education horrible
education you know I went to a bad bad
bad public school that had an influx of
hippies from UMass that came in and
experimented on us so we had no
education whatsoever I graduated from
high school on a plea bargain I had very
good SATs so I had scholarships to ever
I wanted to go but I chose not to
because I misunderstood Bob Dylan I
didn't know he was lying so I went and
hopped trains and hitchhiked around and
looked homeless for a couple of years
and I never read Moby Dick til I was 45
thank you if I'd read Moby Dick when I
was supposed to would call the judge I
wouldn't have gotten it but I was able
to get it at the right age and now it's
my favorite book because I was ready for
it you know there's so many things that
are on the curriculum that are very very
important maybe not that day I think
there's also an issue with people not
thinking of Education in terms of like
that it's a lifetime for sure yeah it's
it's not something that you graduated
from college then you're done we really
should be educating ourselves throughout
life and not just accidentally or
incidentally by experiences we should do
it because there's things that we pursue
that are interesting yeah now is one of
the greatest times ever to do that
because of audiobooks you can do it
while you're in the car you could do it
while you're on the train you're gonna
get educated and also they're doing this
weird connecting thing where I've not
experimented with this but I'd love to
where people take courses online and
then find people who are also taking
courses online in their communities and
then meet it like a fucking Starbucks to
discuss what happened before in the
class which is mind-blowing that that
can happen so you can take you know one
of my huge I mean one of the things I
wanted to do is I wanted to learn to
play jazz so I'm going to play upright
based I took that up at 45 and I learned
to play upright bebop
passably a huge accomplishment and now I
really want to learn a language you know
so I was looking a little because I
figured maybe there's a government watch
list I'm not on so I should learn Arabic
because don't you think that that ticks
all the boxes that's going to give me
everything that if I just learn Arabic
so I started looking into how I can
learn how I can learn Arabic and it's
amazing the kind of network that's
developing all over the world to be able
to learn anything so my argument with
you on on the on the Bernie thing of
paying for everybody's college is I
think we can get college so fucking
cheap you can go to college your whole
life well I don't think that's a bad
idea
you know if it's possible to get college
that cheap but I don't want professor to
be poor I mean I think one of the real
problems we have a budget with public
education is that people don't want to
be a teacher because Peecher teachers
don't get paid much sure but there's
there's a way there's a way I would say
that's a government intervention that's
doing that I would say if you government
interventions keeping the salary low I
think so
really I really think so because I think
that we're not having enough of the of
the of the other competition and stuff I
mean you know you you would pay good
money to be in a room with the Steven
Pinker you know yes and I think that
locally this was always a problem that I
never figured out you know when I was in
Greenfield Massachusetts a town of
20,000 I would say to all the other by
other high school students I would say
you know if we didn't give our money to
the Rolling Stones and the Beatles and
Dylan and all these other bands we could
pull our buddy together and have a
really good local band we could have a
great band right here in town you know
and I think that if you thought of
education that way can't we get in our
little area really great teachers who
can teach this stuff it might be pretty
boss well it would be amazing if we
could spread education right through any
any method whatever we could do we could
encourage people to be more educated but
I think that one of
best ways to do it really is just look
there's a lot of podcasts that are
educating people hmm there's a lot of
information that you can get no more
tape but it's what we're getting is
where there's more information available
now than ever before I think it's very
different than what college is
traditionally College is a thing where
you go and it's a rite of passage it's
like and we don't have those in this
world and I think we could do with them
I think we could do with these rights of
particularly for young men and maybe
it's case for young women obviously I
never was one but when you're a young
man there's this transitionary period
where you're a boy and then all of a
sudden am i a man yet like when am i a
man short Leal OTT of a lot of cultures
religions yeah I've done that
getting that certificate and getting
your diploma holy shit I graduated from
fucking University I'm a man now I'm a
grown-up
I have a degree I'm a woman now I have a
degree I've done adults and you're
obviously you know I'm seeing this you
know it's okay to speak with an accent
it's not okay to hear with one I'm
hearing that from someone who spent an
awful lot of time explaining to myself
and others why I didn't go to college
you know you wanted to show you weren't
a loser I didn't have that I didn't say
I went to Ringling Brothers Barnum
Bailey greatest shorter Clown College
you don't mean if you want a big sure
you don't get respect that's where you
go well I'd say I talk about it just
because I want people to really know
where my head was at I don't want to
like glorify I went without any right of
passage at all right you know and the
closest I had to a rite of passage was
earning my living well it was huge
you were also you were on a different
pursuit but your pursuit was the carny
pursuit yeah and you enjoyed that I mean
there was like a you how to lust for it
yeah you know and it obviously worked
out well okay listen do you really have
to bail it - because - around now yeah
okay
what are you doing just hanging out no
I'm gonna go do you watch this show up
perpetual grace limited no never heard
of it okay what is it
did you watch show Patriot nope okay
best shows I have seen are they fixed on
television yes yes not the Patriot not
Mel Gibson put a show called waited on
Patriot is on Amazon Prime member they
used to be like 20 shows yeah you knew
all yeah not this millions it's
impossible so I am going to meet and
talk to the guy who created all all of
those things oh there it is natural
grace yeah perpetual grace okay and I
know that dude what's that dude's name
it's Ben Kings that's right and then
that's Jimmy Simpson and that guy to the
left is Jimmy Simpson yeah oh yeah there
guys great I never knew who that guy is
he's just always awesome yeah what was
the end recently it wasn't something
really good that's right West gnarled
Steve Conrad is the guy who writes
directs produces creates these shows and
I he happens to be in town and I'm gonna
talk to him from my podcast which is
Penn's Sunday school I'm gonna go to
another studio and talk to him and I'd
already set up the time so nice that
can't be change but I love that Amazon's
doing all these different shows they're
getting into the stand-up comedy world
now - yeah crazy
yeah huge great beautiful there's so
many played with this so much stuff but
there's so many places to put that stuff
yeah yeah beautiful and wow what a great
time we got to do this moron we got to
do this more often this is the first
time we've done it how's that possible
this podcast is almost 10 years old
yeah is the first time you've been on
crazy and also because people yell with
me that's a Twitter thing go talk to Joe
Rogan you asshole this is how fast times
going when I paid your radio show I
didn't have a podcast there's more than
10 years ago yeah that fucking crazy and
crazy flying let's promise to do this
once a year can we do that at least
let's do it okay thank you sir
appreciate you thank you bye everybody
[Music]
[Applause]